# ⛩️ Build Your Own React

In this example, we're creating a function called `render` that does a few things. It takes two things as input: a React element and a DOM element.

The function does three main steps:

1. It creates a new DOM element.
2. It sets the properties of this new DOM element.
3. It puts the new DOM element into the web page.

The React element is a special JavaScript object with two parts:

- The `type` tells us what kind of HTML tag it is, like a heading or a paragraph.

- The `props` are like instructions for how it should look. They can include things like the color or size.
- The `children` part is any text or content inside the element.

```javascript
const reactElement = {
  type: "a",
  props: {
    href: "https://google.com",
    children: "Click me",
  },
};
```

In this example, we've made a React element that's like a link (`<a>` tag) with a link to Google and the text "Click me."

## 🙂 Use JSX instead of React.createElement()

JSX is not JavaScript. It's a special syntax that looks like HTML. It's a lot easier to read and write than React.createElement().

```javascript
// Before
const element = React.createElement(
  "div",
  { id: "hello" },
  React.createElement("p", null, "Hello, world!")
);

// After
const element = (
  <div id="hello">
    <p>Hello, world!</p>
  </div>
);
```

### Why the parentheses?

JSX is not JavaScript, so we need to tell the computer that it's not JavaScript. We do this by putting parentheses around it.

Also is done puerly for formatting reasons. If we didn't have the parentheses, the code would look like this:

```javascript
// Without parentheses

const element = (
  <div id="hello">
    <p>Hello, world!</p>
  </div>
);

// With parentheses

const element = (
  <div id="hello">
    <p>Hello, world!</p>
  </div>
);
```

## ⚙️ Compiling JSX into JavaScript

When we write code using JSX, web browsers can't understand it because they only understand JavaScript. To make it work, we have to 'compile' our JSX code into regular JavaScript.

Usually, this compilation is done during a build process using a tool like Babel. We'll dive deeper into this later in the course.

The main idea to remember for now is that the JSX code we write gets changed into a bunch of `React.createElement` commands. By the time our code runs in a user's browser, all the JSX is gone, and we're left with a JavaScript file that's full of these `React.createElement` commands.

## ⚠️ Note

If you use `.jsx` for your files, you'll need to tell the computer to compile them. If you use `.js`, you won't need to do this.

### ❓ Skipping the React Import?

- **Import React:** Always start by importing React, even if it doesn't seem necessary initially.
- **Compiling JSX:** JSX code gets transformed into `React.createElement` calls during compilation.
- **Older Versions:** In previous React versions, not importing React resulted in an error: "Error: React is not defined."
- **React 17+:** Starting from React 17, a "JSX transformer" handles the import automatically during the build process.
- **Optional Import:** You can skip importing React when working with JSX, as it's no longer required.
- **Personal Preference:** Some developers, including me, choose to import React for clarity and to use advanced React features like hooks.
